# Intelligent-Child-Safety-System-using-GPS-GSM
Integrating pulse, galvanic skin response, and temperature sensors. Engineered an emergency response system with an SOS button for swift interventions. Implemented GSM and GPS technologies for real-time communication and precise child location tracking, demonstrating a communication to innovative solutions for child safety.

Child safety and tracking is of utmost importance as children are the most vulnerable. With increasing crime rates such as child kidnapping, child trafficking, child abuse and so on, the need for an advanced smart security system has become a necessity. With this motivation, a self-alerting “INTELLIGENT CHILD SAFETY SYSTEM USING GPS AND GSM” is developed to aid parents to monitor and track their children in real time as an alternate to stay beside them. This system is intended as an everyday wearable device on the child, in the form of a wrist band, hand glove, arm band or a belt. The system is designed to continuously monitor the location and body vitals of children. This electronic system comprises of an Arduino controller, and sensors to detect the changes in parameters such as temperature, BVP (Blood Volume Pulse) and GSR (Galvanic Skin Response). The system also uses a GSM and GPS module. Decision Tree Classifier Algorithm is used to detect any distress situation with sensor values as inputs. The location of the victim is traced using the GPS module and is sent to the registered contact numbers as a text message using a GSM module. 
